        Licensing and Distribution Terms for the SBML Test Suite

The majority of the SBML Test Suite is copyrighted as follows:

* Copyright (C) 2010-2016 jointly by the following organizations: 
    1. California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA
    2. EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute (EBML-EBI), Hinxton, UK.
    3. University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany

* Copyright (C) 2008-2009 California Institute of Technology (USA).

* Copyright (C) 2004-2007 jointly by the following organizations:
    1. California Institute of Technology (USA) and
    2. University of Hertfordshire (UK).

This software is free; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or any
later version.

This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, WITHOUT EVEN THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  The software and
documentation provided hereunder is on an "as is" basis, and the
copyright holders have no obligations to provide maintenance, support,
updates, enhancements or modifications.  In no event shall the copyright
holders be liable to any party for direct, indirect, special, incidental
or consequential damages, including lost profits, arising out of the use
of this software and its documentation, even if the copyright holders
have been advised of the possibility of such damage.  See the GNU Lesser
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA.


       Contributed software incorporated into the SBML Test Suite

The SBML Test Suite includes contributions from other people who were
not funded directly by the grants for the project nor employed by the
copyright holders noted above.  The following is information about the
copyright and distribution terms of those additions:

* Discrete Stochastic Model Test Suite (DSMTS), written by Thomas
  W. Evans, Colin S. Gillespie, and Darren J. Wilkinson, and distributed
  under the terms of the GNU LGPL v.2.1.

* sbmltest2archive, copyright (C) Stanley Gu 2014 <stanleygu@gmail.com>
  and distributed under the terms of the MIT License.


          Third-party software and materials incorporated into
                          the SBML Test Suite

The SBML Test Runner and other parts of the SBML Test Suite make use of
a number of software libraries and other materials created by other
parties.  Copies of these materials are incorporated into the repository
the SBML Test Suite.

 1. Simple Widget Toolkit (SWT) -- http://www.eclipse.org/swt/
    [checked 2013-04-12]
    Eclipse Public License v1.0

 2. Simple XML Framework -- http://simple.sourceforge.net
    [checked 2013-04-12]
    Apache License 2.0

 3. Opal Widgets -- http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/opal/
    [checked 2013-04-12]
    Eclipse Public License v1.0

 4. SWTChart -- http://www.swtchart.org
    [checked 2013-04-12]
    Eclipse Public License v1.0

 5. Icons8 icons for iOS -- http://icons8.com
    [checked 2013-05-12]
    Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported

 6. Apache Commons FileUpload library -- http://commons.apache.org/fileupload
    [checked 2008-08-10]
    Apache License version 2.0

 7. Apache Commons IO library -- http://commons.apache.org/io
    [checked 2008-08-10]
    Apache License version 2.0

 8. Apache Jakarta Standard Tag Library -- http://jakarta.apache.org/taglibs/
    [checked 2008-08-10]
    Apache License version 2.0

 9. Mozilla Rhino -- http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/
    [checked 2008-02]
    Mozilla Public License version 1.1

10. Wiky -- http://goessner.net/articles/wiky
    [checked 2008-08-09]
    GNU Lesser General Public License
