
                 Test Runners for the SBML Test Suite

                 Frank T. Bergmann and Michael Hucka
                 Computing and Mathematical Sciences
                  California Institute of Technology
                      Pasadena, California, USA

  More information about the SBML Test Suite is available online at
               http://sbml.org/Software/SBML_Test_Suite

 Please report problems with the SBML Test Suite using the tracker at
          http://sbml.org/software/test-suite/issue-tracker

    Please join the sbml-interoperability mailing list by visiting
                      http://www.sbml.org/Forums

  For more information about SBML or the Test Suite, please contact:

                            The SBML Team
                        sbml-team@caltech.edu
                         http://www.sbml.org/

        This software is licensed under the LGPL version 2.1.
            Please see the file "LICENSE.txt" for details.


INTRODUCTION
======================================================================

This directory contains standalone applications and libraries for
running applications through the SBML Test Suite.  There are different
subdirectories for different components and runners.  The most popular
is the graphical user interface (GUI) in "testsuite-ui".

To build the GUI version of the SBML Test Runner, please visit the
file README.txt in the "testsuite-ui" subdirectory.

The SBML Test Suite is a conformance testing system for SBML. It
allows developers and users to test the degree and correctness of SBML
support provided in an SBML-compatible software package.  The SBML
Test Suite consists of (1) a collection of SBML models, each with
associated simulated results where appropriate; (2) a testing
framework for running software tools through the suite; and (3) basic
documentation on the test cases and the use of the suite.


REPORTING BUGS AND OTHER PROBLEMS
====================================================================== 

Please report bugs and other issues to the developers at the following
email address:

  sbml-team@caltech.edu


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
======================================================================

This and other projects of the SBML Team have been supported by the
following organizations: the National Institutes of Health (USA) under
grants R01 GM070923 and R01 GM077671; the International Joint Research
Program of NEDO (Japan); the JST ERATO-SORST Program (Japan); the
Japanese Ministry of Agriculture; the Japanese Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; the BBSRC e-Science
Initiative (UK); the DARPA IPTO Bio-Computation Program (USA); the
Army Research Office's Institute for Collaborative Biotechnologies
(USA); the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (USA); the
California Institute of Technology (USA); the University of
Hertfordshire (UK); the Molecular Sciences Institute (USA); the
Systems Biology Institute (Japan); and Keio University (Japan).

This version of the SBML Test Runner is fashioned after the WIN32
application previously written by Frank T. Bergmann in .NET:

           http://sourceforge.net/projects/compare-results/





======================================================================
# The following is for [X]Emacs users.  Please leave in place.

# Local Variables:
# fill-column: 70
# End:
======================================================================
